The President:
Hi, everybody.
On Friday, I had a
discussion with working
women in Rhode Island about
the economic challenges
they face in their own
lives -- challenges
shared by many of you.
Thanks to the work
we've all put in,
our economy has come a long
way these past six years.
Over the past 55 months,
our businesses have added
10.3 million new jobs.
For the first time in six
years, the unemployment rate
is below 6 percent.
And on Thursday, we learned
that over the past six months,
our economy has grown at its
fastest pace since 2003.
But the gains of a growing
economy aren't yet
felt by everyone.
So we've got to
harness this momentum,
and make the right choices
so that everyone who works
hard can get ahead.
In recent weeks, I've
talked about these choices,
from raising the minimum
wage to creating
new jobs in construction
and manufacturing.
Today, I want to focus on what
I discussed with those women --
the choices we need
to make to help more
women get ahead in
today's economy.
Right now, women make up
almost half of our workers.
More women are their
family's main breadwinner
than ever before.
So the simple truth is, when
women succeed, America succeeds.
And we should be choosing
policies that benefit women --
because that
benefits all of us.
Women deserve fair pay.
Even though it's 2014, there
are women still earning
less than men for
doing the same work.
We don't have second-class
citizens in this country --
we shouldn't in the
workplace, either.
So let's make sure women
earn equal pay for
equal work, and have a
fair shot at success.
Women deserve to be able to
take time off to care for
a new baby, an ailing
parent, or take a sick day
for themselves without
running into hardship.
So let's make sure all
Americans have access
to paid family leave.
Pregnant workers deserve
to be treated fairly.
Even today, women can be fired
for taking too many bathroom
breaks, or forced on unpaid
leave just for being pregnant.
That's wrong -- and we have to
choose policies that ensure
pregnant workers are treated
with dignity and respect.
New parents deserve quality,
affordable childcare.
There's nothing like the
peace of mind that comes with
knowing that your kids are
safe while you're at work.
And the benefits that
children get out of early
enrichment can pay
off for a lifetime.
But in many states, sending your
kid to daycare costs more
than sending them to a
public university.
So let's start demanding
Pre-K for our kids.
And when most low-wage
workers are women,
but Congress hasn't passed a
minimum wage increase in seven
years, it's long past time
that women deserve a raise.
About 28 million workers would
benefit from an increase
in the minimum wage to ten
dollars and ten cents an hour.
And more than half of
those workers are women.
The local businesses
where these workers spend
their money would
benefit, too.
So let's do this -- let's
give America a raise.
All of these policies
are common sense.
All of them are
within our reach.
We've just got to speak
up and choose them.
Because they'll build a
stronger America for all of us.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.